content/posts/meditations/what_a_year/index.md, before:

+++
title = "What a year..."
date = "2020-11-03"
author = "Heaven"
cover = "img/rjuchem_london.jpg"
tags = []
keywords = ["linux", "bsd", "meditations"]
description = "Pulling hope out of the chaos of 2020"
showFullContent = false
+++
---

Cover image created by [Ricardo Juchem](https://twitter.com/ricardojuchem)

After spending the better part of the last two years slowly installing linux on all the machines own (for some machines, more than once) and delving as deep as I could short of developing my own linux applilcatons (in due time...), I've decided to take the next step in my journey and prepare for the Red Hat Certified System Administrator exam. Since I'm more accustomed to using Arch, Debian and Void Linux based distributions from a user standpoint, I'm sure getting accustomed to RHEL and CentOS from a SysAdmin perspective will prove challenging. This post will act as a collection of all my notes from Sander van Vugt's 'Red Hat Certified System Administrator, 3rd Edition' video course and will hopefully be a useful resource for anyone else out there using the RHCSA as a vehicle to take the next step towards mastery in Linux. 

-- Heaven

Commit message:

Added new post at content/posts/meditations/what_a_year/*

content/posts/meditations/what_a_year/index.md, after:

+++
title = "What a year..."
date = "2020-11-03"
author = "Heaven"
cover = "img/rjuchem_london.jpg"
tags = []
keywords = ["linux", "bsd", "meditations"]
description = "Pulling hope out of the chaos of 2020"
showFullContent = false
+++
---

Cover image created by [Ricardo Juchem](https://twitter.com/ricardojuchem)

# Looking Back

Up until the beginning of this year I spent almost every waking hour in a state of hyper-vigilance. Day-by-day, drilling every nugget of Linux, information security and programming into my head in hopes of escaping poverty and elevating my career like my life depended on it. At that point, it felt like it did.

Fast-forward to now. The world is enduring a global pandemic, the US population is more divided than ever, the populations of big cities are dropping at an alarming rate, and I'm...considerably more stable than I've been in a long time, maybe ever. I'm working again (a phrase many people lack the privilege to say), earned my RHCSA, and have happily exchanged sleeping on someone else's couch for a bed that's mine and mine alone. It makes me wonder why, with all things considered, I still perceive my world as a living purgatory.

I can honestly say I harbored hopes, expectations even, that relinquishing any semblance of a personal life to the craft would land me a gig outside of the IT Help Desk where I could **really** thrive. Well, imagine my surprise when a few months of ruminating over my fifth year as a help desk employee during a nationwide quarantine, and an unprecedented level of personal isolation, would force me to check my own hubris. Even this website was created as a medium to *flex*, and now as I review the inaccuracies of my past entries, the reality of how little I *actually* know really sets in.

Entitlement is a funny thing, really. It's a characteristic that I've been able to easily identify in others, without taking a breath of self-awareness to identify in myself. The turning point was definitely after the RHCSA exam. In retrospect, it was naive to expect a single exam to instantly fork new possibilities in my life, and sitting alone in the silent void that came after felt like being marooned on a makeshift raft floating in a sea of futility.

> "My formula for greatness in a human being is *amor fati*: that one wants nothing to be different, not forward, not backward, not in all eternity. Not merely bear what is necessary, still less conceal it - all idealism is mendaciousness in the face of what is necessary - but love it."
> - Friedrich Nietzsche

I'm not trying to flex, I swear.

Until recently, reading that line made me wish Friedrich Nietzsche was alive today...so I could sock him square in the face. There's a fundamental part of me that feels like cherishing an undesirable situation is like embracing some kind of cosmic Stockholm's Syndrome. Now...I think I understand a bit more how taking stock of my life just as it is, and putting more weight on what's in my presence, and in my **present**, rather than the objects, titles, and accomplishments I "need" can elevate me as an individual. Better yet, treasuring the negative space itself, as it serves to increase my appreciaion for the positive.

The crux of it all has hinged on how I've inadvertently defined wealth, and up to this point it's been intelligence above all. Now, I'm not so sure. I don't even think wealth is a value that can be externally quantified. After hammering myself with circling thoughts of inadequacy while comparing my paltry Github repos against the library of some '1-million-X' developer's profile, or the staggering pedigree of a 20-something computer science grad as a 30-something college dropout, I realized that even if I'd achieved all those things, it'd change nothing. I'd figure out how to distill away all the positives and focus on the empty space. I think wealth is a perspective, not an asset that can be given or earned. Whether I adopt that perspective is by choice, and by no amount of titles, accolades, self-affirming mantras, or achievements will it come as an included feature. It's in the moments I begin staring into the gaping chasms of my life while asking myself, "Where did I go so wrong.." where I choose. Hell, maybe in every moment. The good and the bad are both at least moments to **be**, with the alternative being nothing at all.

I could be wrong. I haven't had to really put it to the test by having my entire family wiped out my a militia with a belief system just different enough from mine to validate murder, or being exiled from my home and forced to walk across a foreign country to arrive at **another** country seeking asylum, only to be turned away at the gates because I chose to follow the rules and not sneak through the back door. In that way, even being a black man in America, I can say I'm fortunate.

---

# Moving forward

At the core of my fascination with anything that has blinking lights and goes 'beep-boop' is my love to tinker. Just grabbing something weird, figuring out how it works, and how I can do cool stuff with it. I've completely absolved myself of the desire to chase that InfoSec carrot, and as long as I can take care of myself, my animals and can continue to learn cool stuff then I count that as a win. It's looking like alot of HardenedBSD and Gentoo experiments are on the menu, less as an attempt at getting frontpage on [r/unixporn](https://reddit.com/r/unixporn/) and more to have as intimate knowledge of the inner workings of my systems as possible. I think being able to use a system that I compiled, and maybe wrote a few lines of, as my daily driver is the coolest thing of all time...when it doesn't break. I won't front though, I still put in my share of time lurking on [r/unixporn](https://reddit.com/r/unixporn/).

It's safe to say that this site is no longer a *professional* blog, but I'm sure it was half-past impossible for anyone to take the dystopian-future, pixel art theming seriously. I doubt the five people who accidentally stumble upon, and past, this blog will mind, and it's a boon to have as a platform for free expression while in indefinite, self-imposed exile from social media. Past that, man, everything else is just icing.


-- Heaven
